---
layout: docs
title: iOS 2.4.9 Release Notes
author: "Artisan"
category: release-notes
description: "What's new in Artisan's Mobile Experience Management platform."
---
# iOS 2.4.9 Release Notes

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}

In addition to internal hardening, this release also includes important changes to our UITableView and UICollectionView auto-instrumentation.

Artisan adds a proxy to all UITableView and UICollectionView delegates and data sources so that we can automatically collect analytics events for cell selection and views inside of table cells. With this release by default we will not interfere directly with the setDelegate and setDataSource implementations on TableView and CollectionView. This behavior can be re-enabled using the ArtisanConfiguration.plist. For more information see <a href="/dev/ios/event-tracking/#table-and-collection-view">UITableView and UICollectionView Event Tracking</a>.

* [UPDATED] By default, proxy UITableView and UICollectionView delegates and data sources without directly interfering with setDelegate and setDataSource. For more information see <a href="/dev/ios/event-tracking/#table-and-collection-view">UITableView and UICollectionView Event Tracking</a>.
* [UPDATED] By default, views inside UITableView cells and UICollectionView cells is allowed to be treated as "dynamic" by the Artisan SDK. Previously this was off by default. This value is configurable. For more information see <a href="/dev/ios/event-tracking/#table-and-collection-view">UITableView and UICollectionView Event Tracking</a>.
* [REMOVED] Two methods were removed from ARManager logMessage and setLogMessageUserId. These were part of an old logging feature that is no longer supported.
