---
layout: docs
title: "Personalize"
author: "Artisan"
category: user-guide
description: "Getting started with the Artisan MEM platform for developers."
---
#Personalize

Artisan Personalize allows businesses to define segments of users and then create and deliver highly personalized experiences to those users. You can define segments across multiple dimensions including demographics, device type, user behaviors, and attributes that are specific to your business. Customize all elements of your app including design, business logic, and core functionality. Then deliver multiple versions of your app simultaneously to drive app engagement and brand loyalty.

Features of Artisan Personalize include:

**Advanced Segmentation:**  Create specific audience segments based on age, gender, and location (or other app-specific data), as well as more advanced segments based on behavioral patterns and trends.  You can, for instance, decide to offer a certain discount to women between the ages of 20 and 30 who live in Detroit and tend to buy shoes under $50.

**Targeted Content:** Design and publish content specific to different audience segments.

Personalization is a process that combines segmentation and publishing. Segmentation is defining a group of users that share a specific characteristic or behavior pattern that matters to you. Every app will have at least one feature that is key or unique to the app, that differentiates the app, that the app aims to satisfy or serve. All apps will be have this to Personalize on. 

Once you’ve identified segments, publishing gives you the ability to distribute customized screen designs to segments. Personalize enables you to target specific groups of users so you can increase engagement, conversions, positive user experience. Devices are very personal, and users have meaningful relationships with their device and apps. The more a user relates to the app the more a user will engage the app Personalize lets you target that, create custom content for your users.

Every app will have user profile variables that are distinct and relevant to your customer base - we give you the ability to segment on that and leverage things like a/b testing. You can narrow down what works for specific groups of users, and positively impact KPIs. Not just about generic numbers like time in app, the key is putting user content that is meaningful to your app. 

Example User Profile Variables:

* Male vs female design
* Location segments down to weather or time of day!
* Send a different design when its raining or sunny, night or day
* Younger people are more likely to use social networking to share with their friends
* Target Twitter and Facebook users  
* Look into calendar and find what meetings you have, pull out phone numbers 
* Find out who is using app in car, and have different user interface if you’re in a car

##Segments

A Segment is a group of users that share a specific characteristic or behavior pattern that matters to you.

You define a segment, and then create a design that is targeted towards that segment and publish a custom design to that group of users. All with the purpose of delivering personalized experiences.

Segments that are available right away for use include:

* Device type
* OS version
* App version
* Language
* Location
* For a full list, click here.
