---
layout: user-guide
title: "Goals"
author: "Artisan"
category: user-guide
description: "Getting started with the Artisan MEM platform for developers."
---
#Analyze Goals

A Goal is a benchmark of the desired steps through the app you want your user to take. Analyze shows you the proportion of users successfully making it through each step.

A goal is a measure of your organization\'s key performance indicator such as funnel completion, session length, etc.

## Creating a Goal

* Click on Goals icon in the left hand sidebar
* Click New Goal (green plus sign) to create a new user funnel
* Connect your app to Artisan if prompted
* Enter the name your goal, navigate to the start of your goal wihtin your app, and press Start Recording to begin defining your funnel
* To build your funnel, navigate through the desired screens you would like your user to traverse in an ideal scenario e.g. select product, add to cart and check out screens.  Each action you trigger should automatically appear on your screen as you execute it in your app.  This sequence of events will serve as the funnel that Artisan will use and report upon.
* Confirm the selected events are the events you want included in the funnel and delete any you do not want by pressing the red X alongside that event.  The ordering of the funnel is significant, so ensure that the events are in the correct order (with the first event in the funnel at the top of the screen and the final conversion event of the funnel at the bottom).
* Click Stop Recording and you will automatically be redirected to the Goal Summary page.  The newly created goal will be in the list of goals at the bottom of the page.  The performance of the goal over the life of your app (as of when Artisan was installed and deployed to the app store) is automatically being calculated.

## Viewing a Goal

Artisan provides detailed analytics on each specific goal, simply click the goal you would like to view in the list down at the bottom of the main Goals page.

* Click on the name of the goal in the list of goals.  This is the Goal Report for that specfic goal.  Over the next 24 hours, this report wil automatically be populated with all of the historical data for this specific goal, and will be kept up-to-date in real time from this point onwards.  This historical report is filterable by date range, and shows the following four pieces of information about your goal:
* Overall peformance across each of the funnel goal steps across the date range
* Table defining the number of sessions that have reached each step of the goal across the entire date range
* Historical trends of the goal conversion rate
* Historical overview of how many sessions have reached each step for each day since the beginning of the date range

## Changing a Goal

* Once built, a funnel goal cannot be changed; that is, you cannot add or delete the screens that make up the funnel of your goal. If you must change the makeup of your funnel, you will need to delete the current funnel goal, and create a new one with the correct screens and interactions.
* You can however, change the name of the goal, and the duration from which the goal retrieves the data.
  * Changing the time frame: You can select the period of time that your goal will display information about. Since Artisan retroactively fits the funnel to your data, any time after the date the SDK was installed is available for viewing.
* To delete goal, you must be in main Goals summary page. Click the gear next to goal you’d like to change. Here you can delete the goal, or change the name of the goal.
