---
layout: docs
title: "Analyze"
author: "Artisan"
category: user-guide
description: "Getting started with the Artisan MEM platform for developers."
---
# Artisan Analyze
Collect all usage information about your app, and organize the data into the reports that matter to you.

## Getting Started
There are a few ways to get started using Artisan Analyze.

* You can simply let Analyze run and see what kind of activity is being automatically collected, please see Analyze Reports Overview for more information.
* You can create Goals to better understand how your users are progressing through your app, please see Goals for more information.
* You can create tags to associate specific pieces of content with user behavior, please see Tagging for more information.

## Analyze Reports
Analyze reports give you valuable insight into how your app is performing. Each report gives you insight into different areas. The current available reports are:

* Users
* Sessions
* Devices
* Operating Systems
* Recency
* Frequency
* Events

Report data can be filtered by date. You can changed the date range by clicking on the date options on the top right of the report.

* **Custom:** To create a custom date range for a report, click on the Custom Date Range button on the right hand side of the main Analyze page. The first date you click represents the beginning of the range and the second date clicked represents the end of the date range.
* **Last 30 Days:** If you would like to see analytics for the last 30 days, crossing over months, you can click on the Last 30 Days button.
* **Today:** To see only today's analytics, click on the Today button.

### Events
The Event Report provides visibility into specific behaviors by Artisan (e.g. button taps, control taps, etc.) Each event is listed in the Event Listing page. Selecting an event will produce a report on how many times that event has occurred as well as how many times that event has occurred per user. These reports can be filtered by both date range and tag. To learn more about tagging, please refer to Getting Started: Tagging.

Artisan Analyze automatically collects all key information about how your app is being used by all of your current users. All events are not user-specific; no personal information is collected and analytics queries are made in aggregate. Events that are automatically collected include:

* Screen Views
* Button Taps
* Segmented Control Taps
* Table Cell Selections
* Session Start and Completion

Events and their names are inferred automatically from your app. Additionally, events can be manually collected via the Artisan Analyze In-Code API. This API is available for capturing events triggered within the business logic of your app or events not automatically collected by Artisan. More information on the Artisan In-Code API is available in our Development Documentation Portal.

### Users
The Users Report provides an understanding of new vs. existing users, along with a range of recurring user statistics (e.g. unique users from yesterday). Note that users in this case are in fact unique users over the specified timespan.

### Sessions
The Sessions Report indicates session trends for the number of sessions and average session length, computed either daily or over a specified period of time. Note that a session is the determined as a single instance where a user started and then closed the app, and session time is determined from the time from app opens to when it is closed or backgrounded on the device.

### Devices
The Devices Report demonstrates the number of sessions per device type both in a trend line as well as daily.

## Analyze Goals
Use Goals to measure the effectiveness of your app against key performance indicators (KPIs) such as funnel completion, session length, etc.

### Creating a Goal
* Click on Goals icon in the left hand sidebar
* Click New Goal (green plus sign) to create a new user funnel
* Connect your app to Artisan if prompted
* Enter the name your goal, navigate to the start of your goal within your app, and press Start Recording to begin defining your funnel
* To build your funnel, navigate through the desired screens you would like your user to traverse in an ideal scenario e.g. select product, add to cart and check out screens. Each action you trigger should automatically appear on your screen as you execute it in your app. This sequence of events will serve as the funnel that Artisan will use and report upon.
* Confirm the selected events are the events you want included in the funnel and delete any you do not want by pressing the red X alongside that event. 
* Click Stop Recording and you will automatically be redirected to the Goal Summary page. The newly created goal will be in the list of goals at the bottom of the page. The performance of the goal over the life of your app (since Artisan was installed and deployed to the app store) will automatically be calculated.

### Viewing a Goal
Artisan provides detailed analytics on each of your goals. 

To view the detail of a Goal, simply click the goal you would like to view in the list down at the bottom of the main Goals page.

The goal report is automatically populated with all of the historical data of your app, and is kept up-to-date in real time. This report data is filterable by date range, and shows the following four pieces of information about your goal:

* Overall performance across each of the funnel goal steps for the specified date range
* Table defining the number of sessions that have reached each step of the goal across the entire date range
* Historical trends of the goal conversion rate
* Historical overview of how many sessions have reached each step for each day since the beginning of the date range

### Changing a Goal
Once built, a funnel goal cannot be changed; that is, you cannot add or delete the screens that make up the funnel of your goal. If you must change the makeup of your funnel, you will need to delete the current funnel goal, and create a new one with the correct screens and interactions.

### Changing the duration
You can select the period of time that your goal is measuring. Since Artisan retroactively fits the funnel to your data, any time after the date the SDK was installed is available for viewing.

### Deleting a Goal
To delete a goal, you must be in main Goals summary page. Click the gear next to goal you’d like to change. Here you can delete the goal, or change the name of the goal.



