---
layout: docs
title: "App Map"
author: "Artisan"
category: user-guide
description: "Getting started with the Artisan MEM platform for developers."
---
#App Map

App Map is the interface between your application and Artisan. It is essentially a projection of all the screens that make up your app, displayed as a neat map that you can navigate through. At each screen, we also provide you all the information pertaining to Artisan on that screen. This includes active experiments, powerhooks, and segments on the screen. And if there happens to be no work done on the screen quite yet, we recommend actions that you can take such as creating an experiment. Finally, the App Map will show you other users who are currently working on the app (if you have multiple users set up on the platform). It will highlight what experiments are running, what personalizations, etc.

App Map allows you to navigate through the Artisan platform easily and quickly, allowing you to spend more time optimizing your user’s mobile experience.

##Getting Started with App Map

After connecting your app to the Artisan Platform, you will be automatically be brought to the App Map.

By navigating through the app on either your phone or simulator (not directly on the webpage) you will notice how the screens change - this is how you’re able to easily select the screen you would like to work on.

On the right hand side of the screen you will be presented with the opportunities to do the following:

* Modify and Personalize the app - click here to learn more.
* Create a new experiment - click here to learn more.
* Configure an in-code experiment - click here to learn more.
* Add a tag - click here to learn more.
* You will receive helpful notifications such as “There are active personalizations or experiments running this screen.”


