---
layout: docs
title: iOS SDK 2.3.8 Release Notes
author: "Artisan"
category: release-notes
description: "What's new in Artisan's Mobile Experience Management platform."
---

# iOS SDK 2.3.8 Release Notes

Released {{ page.date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}

This release includes a powerful new feature for Artisan Analytics. While the Artisan SDK provides automatic instrumentation of all session, screen view and user interactions, you previously had no way of adding additional tags or categories to those events.

With this release we have added the artisanEventTags property to UIViews and UIViewControllers, which will enable you to provide context for any automatically-collected analytics events that occur on the given view (like a button tap) or controller (like a screen view event). You can even register a selector on the view or view controller so that the event can be tagged with the current value returned by that method at the time the event occurs. This new feature works with all UIViews and UIViewControllers including tables and collection views.

* [NEW] You can now add tags to automatically-collected analytics events. For more information see the documentation for <a href="/dev/ios/event-tracking/#artisan-event-tags">Automatic Event Tagging</a>.
* [FIXED] Fixed bug when creating an in-code experiment that didn't have a description provided in code. The description field will now correctly be empty if you did not register your in code experiment with a description. For more information about Artisan in-code experiments see <a href="/dev/ios/incode-experiments">In-Code Experiments</a>.
