---
layout: docs
title: "Artisan Android Installation"
author: "Artisan"
category: dev/android
description: "Installation instructions for the Artisan Android SDK"
---

# Artisan Android Installation

Before you can start analyzing, personalizing, optimizing, and modifying your app you'll need to install the Artisan SDK. Installing the SDK requires technical knowledge of your app, so if you aren't familiar with the inner workings of your app you can forward this information to your development team.

<ul>
  <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installation">Installing Artisan</a></li>
  <li><a href="#configuration">Configuring Artisan</a></li>
  <li><a href="#proguard">ProGuard</a></li>
</ul>

<div id="prerequisites"></div>

##Prerequisites

* Android App with a minimum SDK of no less than Android 2.3.3 (API 10) and build against the latest Android SDK.
* The following permissions are required to run Artisan:

<div class="padding-left-20">
    <ul>
        <li>GET_TASKS - We use this permission to detect when the app is going into the background. This allows us to download and apply view changes in a timely and seamless fashion.</li>
        <li>WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE - This permission is required to save the changeset data</li>
        <li>INTERNET - Artisan uses the internet to download change data for modifications and A/B testing</li>
        <li>ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE - This permission allows us to be smart about when we connect to the internet to download changes</li>
    </ul>
</div>

<div id="installation"></div>

##Installing Artisan

Artisan comes bundled with an installer that will configure your App and add the necessary files to your source root. It will also edit your AndroidManifest.xml to point to the ArtisanService that is needed to instrument your Artisan application. For most cases, we recommend using the installer, but if you prefer to configure the project yourself, please skip forward to the next section.

1\. Download the Artisan Android SDK - You can download the SDK by clicking on your App\'s Settings icon and click the Download SDK link.

2\. Extract the contents of New Test Android App-ArtisanInstaller.zip into your project's root directory.

3\. In a terminal, go to the artisan directory inside your project's root directory and run:

<ul>
    <li>sh install.sh (on Mac/OSX or linux)</li>
    <li>install.bat (on Windows)</li>
</ul>

This will update your manifest file, add the artisan_library.jar to your libs directory and create an Application class, if one doesn't exist already.

If there are any settings in your application's manifest that are not compatible with Artisan you will be notified and the installer will not complete. For example, you must specify a minimum Android SDK of 2.3.3 or higher. Change the specified settings and run the Artisan installer again.

<div class="note note-hint">
    <p>OR, As an alternative to running the install script (step 3 above) you can make the following changes manually:</p>
</div>

<div class="padding-left-20">

<p>1. Copy the artisan_library.jar from the 'artisan/artisan_library/' folder into your project's libs directory. You might need to create this folder in the project's root directory if it does not already exist.</p>

<p>2. Copy all Android resources from 'artisan/androidResources/res' to your project's 'res' directory. Be sure to keep the subfolder structure intact.</p>

<p>3. Copy all Android resources from 'artisan/androidResources/assets' to your project's 'assets' directory.</p>

<p>4. Update your AndroidManifest.xml so that Android knows where to find the service and has the correct permissions.</p>

<p>5. Extract the contents of New Test Android App-ArtisanInstaller.zip into your project's root directory if you didn't do that in step 2 above.</p>

Add the following line inside the &#60;application&#62; element.
{% highlight java %}
<service android:name="com.artisan.services.ArtisanService"/>
{% endhighlight %}

You will also need to add the following permissions to your AndroidManifest.xml if they aren't already set:

{% highlight java %}
<service android:name="com.artisan.services.ArtisanService"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.GET_TASKS"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE"/>
{% endhighlight %}

</div>

<div class="note note-hint">
<p>Eclipse Users: You'll need to refresh the project in Eclipse so that the newly added files are pulled into the project. Right click on your project and choose "Refresh".</p>
</div>

<div id="configuration"></div>

##Configuring Artisan

To fully instrument your App you will need to update your Application class and all of your Activities.

### Instrument your Application class

If you already have an Application class you will need to update it to extend com.artisan.application.ArtisanApplication or implement com.artisan.application.ArtisanRegisteredApplication.

You will need to implement three required methods in your Application class: registerUserProfileVariables, registerPowerhooks, and registerInCodeExperiments.

You will also need to call ArtisanManager.startArtisan in the onCreate of your Application class.

{% highlight java %}
import com.artisan.application.ArtisanApplication;
import com.artisan.manager.ArtisanManager;

// Extend ArtisanApplication or implement ArtisanRegisteredApplication
public class MySampleApplication extends ArtisanApplication {

  @Override
  public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();

    ArtisanManager.startArtisan(this, "537128c0e206e73a9b000004");
  }


/**
 * Register your Artisan Power Hook variables and Power Hook blocks here
 *
 * For example:
 *
 * PowerHookManager.registerVariable("WelcomeText", "Welcome Text Sample PowerHook", "Welcome to Artisan!");
 *
 *
 *  HashMap defaultData = new HashMap();
 *  defaultData.put("discountCode", "012345ABC");
 *  defaultData.put("discountAmount", "25%");
 *  defaultData.put("shouldDisplay", "true");
 *
 *  PowerHookManager.registerBlock("showAlert", "Show Alert Block", defaultData, new ArtisanBlock() {
 *    public void execute(Map data, Map extraData) {
 *      if ("true".equalsIgnoreCase(data.get("shouldDisplay"))) {
 *        StringBuilder message = new StringBuilder();
 *        message.append("Buy another for a friend! Use discount code ");
 *        message.append(data.get("discountCode"));
 *        message.append(" to get ");
 *        message.append(data.get("discountAmount"));
 *        message.append(" off your purchase of 2 or more!");
 *        Toast.makeText((Context) extraData.get("context"), message, Toast.LENGTH_LONG).show();
 *      }
 *    }
 * });
 *
 *
 * More examples at http://docs.useartisan.com/dev/quickstart-for-android/#power-hooks
 *
 */
@Override
public void registerPowerhooks() {

}

/**
 * Register your Artisan In-code Experiments here
 *
 * For example:
 *
 * ArtisanExperimentManager.registerExperiment("my first experiment");
 * ArtisanExperimentManager.addVariantForExperiment("blue variation", "my first experiment");
 * ArtisanExperimentManager.addVariantForExperiment("green variation", "my first experiment");
 *
 * More examples at http://docs.useartisan.com/dev/quickstart-for-android/#in-code
 */
@Override
public void registerInCodeExperiments() {

}

/**
 * Register your Artisan In-code Experiments here
 *
 * For example:
 *
 * ArtisanProfileManager.registerDateTime("lastSeenAt", new Date());
 * ArtisanProfileManager.registerLocation("lastKnownLocation");
 * ArtisanProfileManager.registerNumber("totalOrderCount", ArtisanDemoApplication.totalOrderCount);
 * ArtisanProfileManager.registerString("visitorType", "anonymous");
 * ArtisanProfileManager.setGender(Gender.Female);
 * ArtisanProfileManager.setUserAge(29);
 * ArtisanProfileManager.setSharedUserId("abcdef123456789");
 * ArtisanProfileManager.setUserAddress("234 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19106");
 *
 * More examples at http://docs.useartisan.com/dev/quickstart-for-android/#api
 */
@Override
public void registerUserProfileVariables() {

}
{% endhighlight %}

###Instrument your Activities
<div class="note note-hint">In order for your app to be properly instrumented all of your activities need to either extend com.artisan.activity.ArtisanActivity or extend com.artisan.activity.ArtisanFragmentActivity or implement the com.artisan.services.ArtisanBoundActivity interface.
</div>

The simpler option is to extend ArtisanActivity or ArtisanFragmentActivity. There’s nothing else you need to do if you are extending from ArtisanActivity.

Sample Activity that extends ArtisanActivity:

{% highlight java %}
import com.artisan.activity.ArtisanActivity;

public class BaseActivity extends ArtisanActivity {
  ...
}
{% endhighlight %}


If you are already extending a third party Activity or don’t wish to extend ArtisanActivity or ArtisanFragmentActivity you have the alternative of implementing our interface instead.

If you do, you must also make sure to add implementations for each of these methods and call the respective ArtisanActivity static method:


* implement **protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState)** and call **ArtisanActivity.artisanOnCreate(this)**
* implement **protected void onStart()** and call **ArtisanActivity.artisanOnStart(this)**
* implement **protected void onStop()** and call **ArtisanActivity.artisanOnStop(this)**
* implement **protected void onDestroy()** and call **ArtisanActivity.artisanOnDestroy()**
* implement **public void setContentView(int layoutResID)** if you are using this version of setContentView for this Activity or its subclasses and get the contentView from **ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(layoutResID, this)** and pass that in to super.setContentView(View)
* implement **public void setContentView(View view)** if you are using this version of setContentView for this Activity or its subclasses and get the contentview from **ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(view, this)** and pass that in to super.setContentView(View)
* implement **public void setContentView(View view, LayoutParams params)** if you are using this version of setContentView for this Activity or its subclasses and get the contentView from **ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(view, params, this)** and pass that in to super.setContentView(View)
* implement **public ArtisanService getArtisanService()** and return **ArtisanActivity._getArtisanService()**

Sample Activity that implements ArtisanBoundActivity:

{% highlight java %}
import android.app.Activity;
import android.os.Bundle;
import android.view.View;

import com.artisan.activity.ArtisanActivity;
import com.artisan.services.ArtisanBoundActivity;
import com.artisan.services.ArtisanService;

public class SampleArtisanCustomerActivity extends Activity implements ArtisanBoundActivity {

    @Override
    protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        ArtisanActivity.artisanOnCreate(this); // Call Artisan method AFTER super.onCreate
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_absolute_layout);
    }

    @Override
    protected void onStart() {
        super.onStart();
        ArtisanActivity.artisanOnStart(this); // Call Artisan method AFTER super.onStart
    }

    @Override
    protected void onStop() {
        super.onStop();
        ArtisanActivity.artisanOnStop(this); // Call Artisan method AFTER super.onStop
    }

    @Override
    protected void onDestroy() {
        ArtisanActivity.artisanOnDestroy(); // Call Artisan method BEFORE super.onDestroy
        super.onDestroy();
    }

        /**
         * This is the version of setContentView that most people use.
         * You only need to implement this if you are using this version of setContentView in this Activity or its subclasses.
         * If you are using it it looks something like this:
         * setContentView(R.layout.activity_main);
         */
    @Override
    public void setContentView(int layoutResID) {
        View contentView = ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(layoutResID, this);
        super.setContentView(contentView);
    }

        // You only need to implement this if you are using this version of setContentView in this Activity or its subclasses.
    @Override
    public void setContentView(View view) {
        View contentView = ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(view, this);
        super.setContentView(contentView);
    }

        // You only need to implement this if you are using this version of setContentView in this Activity or its subclasses.
    @Override
    public void setContentView(View view, LayoutParams params) {
        View contentView = ArtisanActivity.artisanGetContentView(view, params, this);
        super.setContentView(contentView);
    }

        /**
         * This method is required by the ArtisanBoundActivity interface.
         * You can copy this implementation as is to your Activities that extend our interface.
         */
    @Override
    public ArtisanService getArtisanService() {
        return ArtisanActivity._getArtisanService();
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}


## ProGuard
If you are using ProGuard you will need to follow additional configuration steps to get Artisan working for your release builds. See
<a href="/dev/android/proguard/">http://docs.useartisan.com/dev/android/proguard/</a>
