---
layout: user-guide
title: "Goals"
author: "Artisan"
category: user-guide
description: "Getting started with the Artisan MEM platform for developers."
---
## Goals
Use Goals to measure the effectiveness of your app against key performance indicators (KPIs) such as funnel completion, session length, etc.

### Creating a Goal
* Click on Goals icon in the left hand sidebar
* Click New Goal (green plus sign) to create a new user funnel
* Connect your app to Artisan if prompted
* Enter the name your goal, navigate to the start of your goal within your app, and press Start Recording to begin defining your funnel
* To build your funnel, navigate through the desired screens you would like your user to traverse in an ideal scenario e.g. select product, add to cart and check out screens. Each action you trigger should automatically appear on your screen as you execute it in your app. This sequence of events will serve as the funnel that Artisan will use and report upon.
* Confirm the selected events are the events you want included in the funnel and delete any you do not want by pressing the red X alongside that event. 
* Click Stop Recording and you will automatically be redirected to the Goal Summary page. The newly created goal will be in the list of goals at the bottom of the page. The performance of the goal over the life of your app (since Artisan was installed and deployed to the app store) will automatically be calculated.

### Viewing a Goal
Artisan provides detailed analytics on each of your goals. 

To view the detail of a Goal, simply click the goal you would like to view in the list down at the bottom of the main Goals page.

The goal report is automatically populated with all of the historical data of your app, and is kept up-to-date in real time. This report data is filterable by date range, and shows the following four pieces of information about your goal:

* Overall performance across each of the funnel goal steps for the specified date range
* Table defining the number of sessions that have reached each step of the goal across the entire date range
* Historical trends of the goal conversion rate
* Historical overview of how many sessions have reached each step for each day since the beginning of the date range

### Changing a Goal
Once built, a funnel goal cannot be changed; that is, you cannot add or delete the screens that make up the funnel of your goal. If you must change the makeup of your funnel, you will need to delete the current funnel goal, and create a new one with the correct screens and interactions.

### Changing the duration
You can select the period of time that your goal is measuring. Since Artisan retroactively fits the funnel to your data, any time after the date the SDK was installed is available for viewing.

### Deleting a Goal
To delete a goal, you must be in main Goals summary page. Click the gear next to goal you’d like to change. Here you can delete the goal, or change the name of the goal.